Brain
brain.jpg
The brain is part of the CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM.
FRONTAL LOBE is responsible for the body being organized, concentrated, problem solving, planning, and emotions.
TEMPORAL LOBE is responsible for memory, language, and hearing, while the PARIETAL LOBE is responsible for touch and perception of size.
The CERBELLUM functions for balance and coordination along with the OCCIPTAL LOBE which is responsbile for vision.
Last, but not least, the BRAIN STEM functions for breathing and consciousness.
Lung
lung.jpg
The lungs are part of the RESPIRATORY SYSTEM.
They allow to breath and bring oxygen into our bodies and send carbon dioxide out.
Air passes through nose, pharynx, larynx, into trachea, and into bronchial tubes in the lungs.
Part of the lung are the BRONCHI, which bring air to and from your lungs.
ALVEOLI, small air sacs in the lungs, increase surface area for gas exchange.
Heart
heart.jpg
The heart is part of the CIRCULATORY SYSTEM.
It pumps oxygenated blood into the body along with hormones and other vital substances and maintains blood pressure.
It receives deoxygenated blood and metabolic waste products from the body to the lungs for oxygenation.
RIGHT SIDE: superior/inferior vena cava receives blood from body -> goes through right atrium through right ventricle into lungs.
LEFT SIDE: pulmonary veins receive blood from lungs and goes through left atrium and left ventricle.
Liver
liver.jpg
The liver is part of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
Liver secretes(creates) bile which is a fluid made in the liver.
Bile mechanically digests fats breaking big fat globules into smaller globules.
Then this bile is stored in the gallbladder.
Extra functions of liver: stores nutrients, filters blood, and breaks down toxins.
Stomach
stomach.jpg
The stomach is part of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
Stomach temporarily stores food and contracts to mix and break down food.
It produces pepsinogen (an enzyme) which breaks down proteins.
LOWER ESOPHOGIAL SPHINCTER (upper part of stomach): prevents food from moving back up the stomach.
PYLORIC SPHINCTER(lower part of stomach): controls movement of food from the stomach to small intestine.
Spleen
spleen.jpg
The spleen is part of IMMUNE AND CIRCULATORY SYSTEM.
For the immune system, spleen produces blood cells and removes old/damaged cells.
Specifically creates white blood cells and antibodies to fight infections.
For the circulatory system, spleen filters blood, and destroys germs.
Another function is that it maintains the level of fluids in the body.
Kidney
kidney.jpg
The kidney is part of the URINARY SYSTEM.
It filters blood and creates urine as a waste product.
The MEDULLA of the kidney is the innermost layer which controls concentration of urine.
The CORTEX of the kidney is the outermost layer which receives most of blood flow and reabsorbs filtered material.
There are two kidneys - one on the right and one on the left side of the body.
Pancreas
pancreas.jpg
The pancreas is part of the DIGESTIVE AND ENDOCRINE SYSTEM.
It contains pancreatic juice which breaks/digests food further.
ENZYMES in the juice break down food, starches, and fats.
SODIUM BICARBONATE in the juice protects duodenum by neutralizing acid
HORMONES in the juice such as insulin and glucagon regulate blood sugar levels.
Intestine
intestine.jpg
The SMALL and LARGE intestine are both part of the DIGESTIVE SYSTEM.
The small intestine digests and breaks down chyme (a fluid form of semi-digested food)
It also contains villi which increases the surface area for amount of absorption.
The large intestine absorbs water and performs synthesis of vitamins B&K.
It also forms feces (undigested fiber and water) and moves towards rectum for elimination.
Bladder
bladder.jpg
The bladder is part of the URINARY SYSTEM.
It is the resevoir that collects urine and sends it to the urethra.
Path of urine: first the urine is made in the kidneys and then goes through the ureters.
The ureters are two side tubes which then takes the urine to the URINARY BLADDER.
For elimination of the urine, the bladder sends it to the urethra for urine to exit the body.
